Discipline
by E. Alton Sartor


There are many times in my life where I’ve wondered how I have managed to reach where I am today. In many aspects, I’m a relatively successful young man. I’m about to complete my first year of medical school. I have many friends and reached a point in my life where I’m not concerned about money. After these accomplishments though, I sometimes look back and wonder how I managed to achieve what many can only dream of, because I don’t feel that I embody all that much discipline.
This lack of discipline can manifest itself in a variety of different ways. For example, I have a horrible ability to procrastinate that can sometimes catch up to me and result in negative consequences. It is very easy for me to spend a significant portion of the time simply distracting myself so that I won’t have to deal with some distasteful task (like studying). I am constantly frustrated by the fact that if I were to just do the work required, I’d be able to move on with my life and enjoy some time where I could truly relax without tasks hanging over my head.
In other circumstances, my lack of discipline results in a tremendous amount of time wasted while studying. If I’m not in the right mood to get work done, I can often waste hours in a cycle of brief work followed by self distraction. I will work for just a few minutes then suddenly be distracted by a stray thought and impulsively follow it. The more often that I allow myself to give in to these thoughts, the easier it is to submit to the next. When in the middle of one of these self-perpetuating cycles, very little work is actually accomplished. Eventually, out of frustration, I give up on my task and allow myself to follow some time-wasting activity.
I have found a variety of tactics to help alleviate this problem, though I’ve found that in medical school these tactics don’t always work. In general, I always force myself to follow a series of rules to give structure to my life. These rules can be summed up as follows: Always go to class, even if the professor is hopeless and unknowledgeable on the subject. Always turn in assignments on time, even if quality suffers. Finally, always get enough sleep. In undergrad, I always focused on taking classes that I could successfully complete following these simple rules. In well taught classes with significant out of class support (i.e. problem sets, tested reading assignments) and professor feedback, this method worked well. Often, all the material that I needed to understand for a class was contained within the assignments, so that completing all the problem sets resulted in a solid understanding of the required material. In these classes, it was generally easy for me to get a strong grade in addition of effectively understanding all of the material.
On the other hand, in medical school this general techniques is not remotely as effective. The classes provide little support outside of class and there is virtually no feed-back from professors. Without this feed-back, I find myself unusually unmotivated to stay focused on studying and learning the material. In this situation, my fundamental lack of discipline is a real liability. Unfortunately, going into next year, this situation is unlikely to change, so it is up to me to find a way work out a better study plan. Basically, I need to come with a new set of rules that will allow me to overcome my own lack of discipline and get my work done effectively.