Listening is perhaps the most important skill that a doctor will develop over their lifetime.  As a medical student, I stand in awe of some the amazing doctors that have had the opportunity to work with over the last two year for their amazing ability simply listen.  A particularly fine doctor that I was able to shadow over the previous summer was particually good at this important trait.  Dr. Warren Suh is a radiation oncologist who works at Brigham had Women's hospital up in Bostion.  He could internalize a patient's statements and emotions over only a brief converstion and was able to hone in on the true concerns and help them deal with the difficult emotions surrouding a cancer diagnosis and the subsequent need for chemotherepy and radiation.  Listening isn't only important to a doctor from an emotional perspective, but also from a technical one.  He was also able to pick up on the minor medical issues in his patients that could often be the harbinger of significantly worse problems, all through careful listening skills.  One day, I hope to be able to emulate his example and become an excellent listener.  
        I feel that the path to this goal is difficult.  To be honest, I've dealt with many doctors who were difficult to be around because their personalities and egos were so large that they were completely unable to effectively listen to their patients.  From my perspective as a student, this behavior from doctors who are supposed to be our role models is infuriating.  Though my fury is generally short lived.  Though Dr. Suh has been an inspiration to me in terms of how he treats his patients and how he responds emotionally to their needs, there is much that can be learned from doctors who are generally unable to overcome their own egos.  In much the same way as the television show "House" can teach you how to be a good doctor by teaching you what not to do, there are many doctors that can teach you how to be a better listener by teaching you what not to do.  For instance, one of the most common mistakes that I see a doctor make when interacting with a patient is asking a question and continuing to speak, sometimes even putting words into the patient's mouth by asking a leading question and clearly expecting a specific answers.  By doing this, they can often shut out the opinions and worries of shy, quiet patients without even realizing it.  
        Over my clinical years, we as medical students will become avacados for our patients.  We will often have the most time to collect a detailed and thorough history and honestly listen to our patients.  I am looking forward to this opportunity so that I can begin to hone my listening skills to more closely match those of my role models.