What do I do to avid becoming impatient? HOw could I control impatience and rising anger.


HOw frequantly do I become impatient.


why will this help me.


anger is a habit.  Individual has choice.






Patience:  How I have none and maybe could use more. 


One of my own personal challenges as a physician will by my own sense of patience.  I've always had a bit of a short fuse when it comes to waiting with patience, especially when working with people who are slow.  In this essay, I first want to justify my position, so that it's clear how I came to be this way and why I can sometimes have a short temper.  Then I will refute my own positions.  I recognize that patience is a true virtue and I admire people who seem to have a never ending supply.  It's one thing to recognize an admirable trait, but it's another to actually put that into practice. 


The fundamental basis for my impatience is based on two concepts: justice and competence.  There is one sure fire way to get under my skin.  If I am put in a situation where I have to participate in injustice, I will rapidly lose control of my temper.  For example, even discussing health care policy in Louisiana will make me somewhat angry, simply because there are so many ways that we could work to improve the system to be more fair.  Another situation that causes me to become impatient is when I am forced with deal with incompetence.  This is the one that can be particularly dangerous in New Orleans because of what I'll politely call systemic slowness.  If someone is assigned a task, I find that it is incredibly important for them to do it quickly and effectivly.  For example, if I go to a restaurant, I expect the waitor to be relatively quick about orders and checks because it is their job.  If they were to be particularly slow, I could quickly become angry since they are ineffective at their job.  Basically, I feel that people should perform well at their various jobs so that everything runs smoothly.  If one person is slow or lazy, then it can result in everyone else performing below their best, which is inherently unfair. 


These feelings of impatience and anger could be a hinderence to my future ability to interact with people for several reasons.  First of all, I can be especially hard on people who are just learning how to do something new.  For instance, I could imagine myself being angry at a new nurse or medical student when they are unable to learn a new skill quickly enough.  In order to teach someone a new skill, one must be extremely patient, especially if they are having a hard time learning a new task.  My own impatience and perception of their incompetence in this situation could unfairly limit their own ability to learn in a tough situation.  On top of that, I would be hippocrite simply because by being impatient, I would be acting as an incompetenet teacher. 


In order to try and deal with my own impatience, I employ several stratagies.  First and most important, if I feel that I am becoming angry, I immediately try and distance myself from the cause.  Often this alone is enough to allow me to regain my cool.  Unfortunately, in some situations, it's impossible to directly avoid the frustrating stimulas.  This has been the case in the past with frustrating co-workers.  In this situation, I do my best to focus on the positive and to act calmly as a role model.  Even if I'm boiling inside, if I am able to project a mask of patience, then eventually I will calm down. 


These stratagies work many times, but there are still times when I can lose my temper, especially if I am chronically stressed and tired.  It is in these situations that I must work on the most.  Hopefully, as I focus on controlling my anger, I will be able to ultimately reach a more perminant state of calm that will serve me well in the years to come.