Why do you want to be a doctor?
 
That’s a tough question to answer.  I would be disingenuous if I didn’t mention the fact that being a doctor is a well respected position, not to mention that it pays well.  But than again, to say that these are my only reasons would be just as disingenuous.  Ultimately, the most important reason that I want to become a doctor is that I love to help people. While there are many different ways to help a person, there are ways that only a trusted and highly experienced person can help another.   The help that means the most to me is the kind of help where, though knowledge, experience, and trust, one can offer a part of one's self to another so that that person can benifit.  [I'm going to try and give some examples of exactly what I'm talking about]
 
Through my experience with various intern and teaching positions, I have learned that the single most important aspect of any job is how one interacts with people.  I've had a couple of jobs where I was working in a cubicle for a chunk of the summer and found those jobs to be horribly unfulfilling.  If all of my experiences and jobs have taught me one important lesson, it's that the best jobs always involve interacting with people.  If this were all that were needed to live a fulfilling job, then we'd all be telemarketers.  Fulfilment also comes from specifically how those interactions take place. 


Whenever there is a good interaction, the person at the receiving end of the interaction appreciates the work that you've done for them.  This appreciation is based on the fact there there was some goal or action that they could not achieve themselves, but due to my experiance and training, I was able to help them reach this goal.  This interaction is at the heart of why I want to be a doctor.  The most moving experiances of my life have been in situations where I was able to provide for someone else in a way that they were not able to provide for themselves, whether it be by teaching, or by more directly assisting them with their problems. 


One time that I am often able to help other people overcome a difficult obstacle is when I have had the opportunity to help people is through  the teaching and tutoring positions that I've held.  I worked hard to become on of the few operators of my school's nuclear reactor.  On of the primary duties of this position is to help train new operators so that we have enough personelle to operate the reactor as people graduate and move on.  I've also had lots of experience teaching as a lab teaching assistant for my organic chemistly class.  In both of these situations, I am often called on to explain comlicated concepts that confound most students like neutron lifetime at the reactor or organic synthesis for the reactor.  In these situations, I must call on everything that I understand about the subject and explain it so that the other students can understand.  People are often quite impressed with the progress that they can make when all they needed was a simple explaination of a complex topic.  


Another example of this type of when I've had the oppertunity to experiance this type of interaction was when I was volunteering at Cornell medical center in New York.  One of my tasks was to interview patients who were coming to recieve a high res. CT scan to search for lung cancer.  The interview generally involved questions that were designed to evaluate the patient's risk for lung cancer, and overall were fairly straightfoward.  Often, these interactions would evolve into a conversation and though I was only a volunteer, many of the people expressed how happy they were that they were part of the lung cancer screening program and were glad that the whole process involved interviews and personal interaction to assess their risk.  In short, they offered a tremendous amount of trust.  This trust is what partly defines the whole concept of helping others in a way that they could not help themselves.